// These are words to have cspell ignore in this file
// cspell:ignore --nlon --nlat --Klevel --Lstep
// cspell:ignore --dst_vgrid --nthreads

fregrid(1)
==========

NAME
----

fregrid - remaps scalar and vector data onto different grid resolutions

SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
fregrid --input_mosaic input_mosaic --input_file input_file [options]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

fregrid remaps data (scalar or vector) from an input_mosaic onto an
output_mosaic, but the output (or target) grid can also be specified
through the inputs lonBegin, lonEnd, latBegin, latEnd, nLon and nLat.
Currently only T-cell scalar regridding and A-grid vector regridding
(where the vector field is expressed in spherical coordinates) is
available.  Vector fields can be mapped as vectors only from the cubic
grid to the lat-lon grid, and while using bilinear interpolation; but
users can instead specify the vector components as (independent)
scalar components and thereby choose a conservative interpolation. The
interpolation algorithm used is controlled by *--interp_method* with
default 'conserve_order1'. Currently the implemented remapping schemes
are 'conserve_order1', 'conserve_order2' and 'bilinear'. Alternative
schemes can be added if needed. fregrid expects NetCDF format input.
scalar_field and/or u_field/v_field must be specified. u_fld and v_fld
must be paired together. If using NetCDF4, output will have the same
deflation and shuffle settings unless specified.

OPTIONS
-------

*--input_mosaic* _input_mosaic_::

Specify the input mosaic information. This file contains list of tile
files which specify the grid information for each tile.


*--input_file* _input_file_::

Specify the input file name. The suffix '.nc' can be omitted. The
suffix 'tile#' should not present for multiple-tile files. The number
of files must be 1 for scalar regridding and can be 1 or 2 for vector
regridding. File path should not be includes.

*--scalar_field* _scalar_fld_::

Specify the scalar field name to be regridded. The multiple entry
field names are separated by comma.

*--u_field* _u_fld_::

Specify the vector field u-component name to be regridded. The
multiple entry field names are separated by comma. u_field must be
paired together with v_field. u_field corresponds to the zonal
component of the vector field

*--v_field* _v_fld_::

Specify the vector field v-component name to be regridded. The
multiple entry field names are separated by comma. v_field must be
paired together with u_field. v_field corresponds to the meridional
component of the vector field.

*--output_mosaic* _output_mosaic_::

Specify the output mosaic information. This file contains list of tile
files which specify the grid information for each tile. If
output_mosaic is not specified, nLon and nLat must be specified.

*--lonBegin* _decimal_::

Specify the starting longitude(in degree) of the geographical region
of the target grid on which the output is desired. The default value
is 0.

*--lonEnd* _decimal_::

Specify the ending longitude(in degree) of the geographical region of
the target grid on which the output is desired. The default value is
360.

*--latBegin* _decimal_::

Specify the starting latitude(in degree) of the geographical region of
the target grid on which the output is desired. The default value is
-90.

*--latEnd* _decimal_::

Specify the ending latitude(in degree) of the geographical region of
the target grid on which the output is desired. The default value is
90.

*--nlon* _integer_::

Specify number of grid box cells in x-direction for a regular lat-lon
grid.

*--nlat* _integer_::

Specify number of grid box cells in y-direction for a regular lat-lon
grid.

*--KlevelBegin* _integer_::

Specify begin index of the k-level (depth axis) that to be regridded.

*--KlevelEnd* _integer_::

Specify end index of the k-level (depth axis) that to be regridded.

*--LstepBegin* _integer_::

Specify the begin index of L-step (time axis) that to be regridded.

*--LstepEnd* _integer_::

Specify the end index of L-step (time axis) that to be regridded.

*--output_file* _output_file_::

Specify the output file name. If not presented, output_file will take
the value of input_file. The suffix '.nc' can be omitted. The suffix
'tile#' should not present for multiple-tile files. The number of
files must be 1 for scalar regridding and can be 1 or 2 for vector
regridding. File path should not be includes.

*--input_dir* _input_dir_::

Specify the path that stores input_file. If not presented, the input
file is assumed to be stored in current directory.

*--output_dir* _output_dir_::

Specify the path that will store output file. If not presented, the
output file will be stored in current directory.

*--remap_file* _remap_file_::

Specify the file name that saves remapping information. If remap_file
is specified and the file does not exist, remapping information will
be calculated ans stored in remap_file. If remap_file is specified and
the file exists, remapping information will be read from remap_file.

*--interp_method* _interp_method_::

Specify the remapping algorithm to be used. Default is
'conserve_order1'. Currently only 'conserve_order1',
'conserve_order2', 'conserve_order2_monotonic' and 'bilinear'
remapping scheme are implemented in this tool. The bilinear scheme can
only be used to remap data from cubic grid to regular lat-lon grid.
When interp_method is 'bilinear', nLon and nLat must be specified and
the output data in y-direction will be located at the center of cell
or bound of the cell depending on the setting of y_center.

*--test_case* _test_case_::

Specify the test function to be used for testing.

*--grid_type* _grid_type_::

Specify the vector field grid location. default is A-grid and only
A-grid is implemented yet.

*--symmetry*::

Indicate the grid is symmetry or not.

*--target_grid*::

Use target grid cell area instead of calculating based on exchange
grid area. default is off.

*--finer_step* _integer_::

This is used only for bilinear interpolation. Set finer_step to a
positive integer to reduce noise in interpolation and get a relatively
smooth output. The default value is 0. When finer_step is greater than
0, fregrid will first remap data from source grid onto a finer grid
with resolution that is power of 2 of destination grid resolution
using bilinear interpolation, then using volume averaging to remap
data from finer grid onto destination grid.

*--center_y*::

Output latitude will locate at cell center, i.e., the starting
latitude will be -89 when nLat = 90. when center_y is not set,
starting latitude will be -90. for bilinear interpolation. For
conservative interpolation, center_y is assumed.

*--check_conserve*::

Check the conservation of conservative interpolation. The area sum
will be printed out for input and output mosaic.

*--monotonic*::

When specified, use monotonic interpolation when interp_method is
'conserve_order2'.

*--weight_file*::

Specify the filename that store weight_field. The suffix '.tile#.nc'
should not present for multiple-tile files. weight_field is used to
adjust the source weight. Normally it could be area fraction. When
weight_field is specified, the weight_file will default to be
input_file if weight_file is not specified.

*--weight_field*::

Specify the name of weight field in weight_file

*--dst_vgrid*::

Specify the destination vertical grid file. Data will be remapped onto
the destination vertical grid. When --dst_vgrid is specified,
--extrapolate is assumed to be specified.

*--extrapolate*::

Will extrapolate data onto masked points when specified.

*--stop_crit* _criteria_::

The stopping criteria when extrapolating data onto missing points.
Default is 0.005.

*--standard_dimension*::

When specified, the dimension and field name for longitude and
latitude axis will be 'lon' and 'lat'. 'lon_bnd' and 'lat_bnd' will be
longitude and latitude bound name. The dimension of lon_bounds is
(2,nLon) and the dimension of lat_bounds is (2,nLat).

*--associated_file_dir* _dir_::

Specify the path of the associated files.

*--debug*::

Will print out memory usage and running time.

*--format*::

netcdf file format. Valid values are 'netcdf4', 'netcdf4_classic',
'64bit_offset', 'classic'. When format is not specified, will use the
format of input_file.

*--nthreads* _num_threads_::

Specify number of OpenMP threads.

*--deflation* _deflation_::

If using NetCDF4 , use deflation of level _deflation_. Defaults to
input file settings.

*--shuffle* _shuffle_::

If using NetCDF4 , use shuffle if 1 and don't use if 0 Defaults to
input file settings.

EXAMPLES
--------

. Remap C48 data onto N45 grid.
+
This example uses GFDL-CM3 data as example
+
----
$ fregrid --input_mosaic C48_mosaic.nc --input_dir input_dir \
    --input_file input_file --scalar_field temp,salt \
    --nlon 144 --nlat 90
----

// cspell:ignore extrap vgrid

. Remap data onto cm2m ocean grid with extrapolation and vertical interpolation.
+
----
$ fregrid --input_mosaic levitus_mosaic.nc --input_dir input_dir \
    --input_file WOA09_ann_theta.nc --scalar_field POTENTIAL_TEMP \
    --output_file WOA09_ann_theta_cm2g_extrap.nc \
    --output_mosaic cm2m_ocean_mosaic.nc --extrapolate \
    --dst_vgrid input_dir/cm2m_ocean_vgrid.nc
----

BUGS
----
Open bug reports at {package_bugreport}.

AUTHORS
-------
Zhi Liang

COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
---------------------
Copyright {copyright_year} Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory

FRE-NCTools is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

FRE-NCTools is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.
