# FRE-NCtools 

FRE NCtools are a collection of tools to help with the creation and
manipulation of netCDF files used or written out by the climate
models developed at the
[Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory](https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov)
(GFDL).  These tools were primarally written by members of the GFDL
[Modeling Systems Group](https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/modeling-systems)
to be used in the
[Flexible Modeling System](https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/fms) (FMS)
[Runtime Environment](https://www.gfdl.noaa.gov/fre) (FRE).

## Tools

The tools available in FRE-NCtools are:

* combine_blobs -- 
* combine_restarts -- Combine restart files generated by a FMS enabled model
* iceberg_comb -- Combine iceberg history files
* combine-ncc -- Combine distributed unstructured FMS grid netCDF files
* decompress-ncc -- Convert an unstructured FMS grid file to a standard lat-lon grid
* scatter-ncc -- Distribute an unstructured FMS grid netCDF file for initializing a FMS climate model
* is-compressed -- Determine if a netCDF file has an unstructured FMS grid
* list_ncvars -- List the variables in a netCDF file
* mppnccombine -- Combine destributed FMS netCDF files
* plevel -- Interpolates data from model levels to pressure levels
* split_ncvars -- Write the variables in a FMS netCDF file into multiple netCDF files, one file per netCDf field
* timavg -- Create a time average netCDF file
* check_mask
* fregrid -- Convert from one grid resolution to another
* make_coupler_mosaic
* make_hgrid
* make_land_domain
* make_quick_mosaic
* make_regional_mosaic
* make_solo_mosaic
* make_topog
* make_vgrid
* mppncscatter -- Distribute FMS netCDF file for initializing a FMS climate model
* ncexists
* remap_land
* river_regrid
* runoff_regrid
* transfer_to_mosaic_grid

## Install

FRE NCtools is configured to be built with a modern version of the
Intel C and Fortran compilers.  Using other compilers (GCC/GFortran)
should be possible, but is not tested by the Modeling Systems group at
GFDL and will require the creating of `Makefiles` for the chosen
compiler.

The script [fre-nctools-make-package](fre-nctools-make-package) is
used to build and install FRE-NCtools.  This script will use a set of
site configuration files found in the [site-configs](site-configs)
directory.  Each site will have a directory with the same name as the
site (e.g. [site-configs/ncrc4](site-configs/ncrc4) contains the files
required to build fre-nctools on the ncrc4 site).  In each site
directory are two required files: `env.sh` and `build.mk` which
contain the instructions to setup the build environment and
compile/link options for the site respectively.  The `env.sh` file
contains the `bash` commands required to modify the environment to
find the compiler, and required librarys for the build.  The
`build.mk` file contains several make macros to allow the compiler and
linker to know where certain libraries (namely the netCDF C and
Fortran libraries).  The make macros that can be modified in the `build.mk` site are:

```make
# Macros to override the compiler
FC := # Fortran Compiler
CC := # C Compiler
MPICC := # C Compiler for building MPI applications

# Macros to add additional include paths or CPP/FPP Macros to the compiler
CFLAGS_SITE :=
FFLAGS_SITE :=

# Macros to add additional library paths to the linker
CLIBS_SITE :=
FLIBS_SITE :=

# Path to the installation of NetCDF and HDF5 libraries
NETCDF_HOME :=
HDF5_HOME :=

# Macro to pass the static link option to the compiler
# If blank, then the executables will be dynamically linked
STATIC :=

# NOPARALLEL controls if some tools also build the parallel (MPI) version of the
# executable.  If NOPARALLEL is non-blank, then the parallel version will not be
# built.
NOPARALLEL :=
```

To build and install the fre-nctools package, run the
[fre-nctools-make-package](fre-nctools-make-package) script with following syntax:

```sh
fre-nctools-make-package -s <site> <package_name>
```

where `<site>` is the name of the site directory in the `site-configs`
directory, and `<package_name>` is a string that describes something
about the build.  The Modeling System groups uses the string to
describe the FRE version of the build (e.g. bronx-11, bronx-12).  Run
the `fre-nctools-make-packate` with the `-h` option to see more
options.

The `fre-nctools-make-package` script will perform each build in a
separate `build.fre-nctools.<site>.<package_name>.XXXXX` directory,
where `<site>` and `<package_name>` are the same as defined on the
command line, and `XXXXX` are randomly generated alpha-numeric
characters.

The script will copy the site configuration files `env.sh` and
`build.mk` files into the build directory, along with a master
`Makefile` and will then call `make` (unless the `-n` option is given
on the command line).

If the build is successful, `fre-nctools-make-package` will then run
`make install` to install executables, and scripts into a
sub-directory `<package_name>` in the build directory.  The location
to install the package can be modified with the `-P <prefix>` option.
Using this option will install the package to
`<prefix>/<package_name>`.

### Install Documentation

Some of the commands have man pages.  To install these man pages, run
`fre-nctools-make-package` with the -d option (or enter the build
directory and run `make install-docs`.  To build the documentation,
the command ASCIIdoc to Docbook command `a2x` must be availabe on the
system.
